Since the centennial
of the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre,
there has been an increasing
amount of research about Greenwood.
Over the past several years,
documents, photographs,
and even video footage previously
hidden from the public have been
digitized and published online.
The challenge with this new
wealth of information is that all
these resources are housed in many
different institutions,
in different databases,
both locally and nationally.
We have more information than ever
before, and it needs to be organized.
The team from Spark Collaborative
has been working with the Greenwood
Cultural Center to compile
several public data sources,
including census records,
maps, business directories,
municipal land records,
and other sources of information
into a single searchable resource.
Today, we would like to show
you the progress we've made
in creating this tool that will
soon be available to the public.
Visualizing information on a map can
enhance our understanding of a story.
Today, as we honor the Burleson
family, we're going to share
with you some information
about
Atoya Burleson's ancestors who had
several businesses in Greenwood.
With this tool, you'll be able
to browse a map of Greenwood.
Here you are seeing the map
of Greenwood in the year 1910.
Since this interface is a touch
screen, you'll be able to zoom
in on the map similar to the way
you zoom in with a phone or tablet
to locate specific buildings.
The map will show,
based on historical records,
what was here during this time.
Now we will switch to the year 1920.
Touching a building will bring up its
details and show the information
that is available for this place.
The base layer data
for this map is the US census.
What we see in the census records is
that in 1930 there was a Lafayette L.
Wilson living at 304 1/2
Greenwood Avenue, married to Ruby M.
Wilson.
Lafayette is listed
as a proprietor of a hotel.
We see something interesting
in the city phone
directory for this year.
If Lafayette was just living
at this Beach Hotel location,
it wouldn't have parentheses
and it would have "r.m.s."
in front of it,
indicating that he would
be rooming at this hotel.
So the parentheses indicate
for us that he was the owner
or the proprietor of the Beach Hotel.
Lafayette L.
Wilson is listed as living at the
Beach Hotel at 304 1/2
Greenwood Avenue.
We can see another property
associated with his name,
Lafayette Hotel,
at 604 East Archer Street.
When we look at these documents,
we can see that his name
is on the deed.
Wilson purchased this property
in February of 1931.
With these records, we can clearly
see that Lafayette L.
Wilson had experience in the hotel
business and then purchased
this hotel, adding his name
to the story of Greenwood's
thriving once more a decade
following the massacre.
With the digitization of land
records, census records,
business directories,
newspaper articles, and other types
of documents, we have a wealth
of information at our fingertips.
The Greenwood Cultural Center is
proud to develop this interactive
genealogy exhibit titled
Gathering Greenwood.
The City of Tulsa has been
awarded the Emmett Till Cold
Case Grant by the U.S.
Department of Justice to investigate
the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre,
with a focus on forensic
genetic genealogy to identify
potential victims.
Part of this grant is the creation
of Gathering Greenwood,
an interactive kiosk that will
empower visitors to come and look
through these maps and records.
This is the first time in Tulsa's
history that this information will
be cross-referenced and displayed
on one visual digital exhibit.
We are honored to bring this resource
to the community and hope
that you will return to discover
Greenwood in a new way.